Project 8: Multi-Tenant SaaS Application – Use Cognito, API Gateway, and 
RDS for a multi-tenant SaaS solution. 
A Multi-Tenant SaaS Application allows multiple customers (tenants) to use the 
same application while keeping their data secure and isolated. AWS provides a 
scalable solution using Cognito for authentication, API Gateway for managing 
API requests, and RDS for structured data storage. This setup ensures security, 
performance, and scalability for your SaaS platform. 

Steps to Deploy a Multi-Tenant SaaS Application on AWS 

1. Set Up AWS Cognito for User Authentication 
● Go to the AWS Cognito service in the AWS Console. 
● Create a User Pool to manage authentication for tenants. 
● Enable Multi-Tenant Support using custom attributes (e.g., tenant_id). 
● Configure authentication providers (Google, Facebook, or SAML-based 
authentication if needed). 
● Create an App Client to integrate with your application. 

2. Create an RDS Database for Multi-Tenant Data Storage 
● Go to Amazon RDS and create a new database (PostgreSQL or MySQL 
recommended). 
● Choose an instance type based on the expected load. 
● Configure a multi-tenant database model: 
○ Single database, shared schema (add tenant_id column in tables). 
○ Single database, separate schema per tenant. 
○ Database per tenant (useful for large enterprises). 

3. Build APIs Using AWS API Gateway and Lambda 
● Go to Amazon API Gateway and create a new REST API. 
● Define API routes for different functionalities (e.g., /users, /orders). 
● Use Cognito Authorizer to secure API access. 
● Deploy Lambda functions to handle requests: 
○ Create Lambda functions to interact with the RDS database. 
○ Implement tenant isolation logic (ensure each tenant can access only  
○ atus 
    } 
} 
 
Use the listTasks query to retrieve all tasks: 
graphql 
 
query { 
    listTasks { 
        id 
        title 
        description 
        status 
    } 
} 
 
 
Step 6: Secure the API (Optional) 
● Use AWS Cognito for user authentication. 
● Enable IAM authentication for secure access. 


Conclusion 
You have successfully deployed a GraphQL API using AWS AppSync and 
DynamoDB. This setup allows seamless CRUD operations with real-time updates, 
making it an efficient backend solution for modern applications.